Contributing.md, before:

# Contributing
These are notes compiled for a third year Computer Science course. Hence, they are not a total representation of TOA - but rather a representation of the course's contents. That being said - if you feel I have left anything out, could have explained something better, made an error somewhere, or anything at all- please feel free to contribute to this repository. 

## How To
For minor issues like spelling/grammar mistakes - please create an [issue](https://github.com/AngusTheMack/TOA/issues/new/choose). If it is anything else, or you want to complete a task listed on the [Notes Project Board](https://github.com/AngusTheMack/TOA/projects/1), please fork the repository and make the changes/additions you want and then submit a pull request and assign it to me 🆒

Format your Markdown however you like, as long as it is readable and gets the point across 🏄


## Environment
I generally write my notes in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), using the [Markdown All in One](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one) extension. It allows for a whole range of cool features. I then use [Emoji Sense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bierner.emojisense) to ensure that my Emoji's work 👍

That being said, you do not have to use my environment  - I am simply letting you know what works for me. You can write markdown however you like! 😎

## Contact
I am more than happy to field any other queries to my [email](mailto:mckang009@myuct.ac.za)

Commit message:

Added Equation to contributing.md :tiger:

Contributing.md, after:

# Contributing
These are notes compiled for a third year Computer Science course. Hence, they are not a total representation of TOA - but rather a representation of the course's contents. That being said - if you feel I have left anything out, could have explained something better, made an error somewhere, or anything at all- please feel free to contribute to this repository. 

## How To
For minor issues like spelling/grammar mistakes - please create an [issue](https://github.com/AngusTheMack/TOA/issues/new/choose). If it is anything else, or you want to complete a task listed on the [Notes Project Board](https://github.com/AngusTheMack/TOA/projects/1), please fork the repository and make the changes/additions you want and then submit a pull request and assign it to me 🆒

Format your Markdown however you like, as long as it is readable and gets the point across 🏄 However, when it comes to mathematical equations the Github markdown renderer does not interpret mathematical notation. Hence, it is best to use the [Code Cogs website](https://www.codecogs.com/eqnedit.php) in order to create an embeddable html version of the equation. Which does make life a bit easier. Alternatively, you can download a `.gif` based image of the equation and include that in the markdown file. This solution was found thanks to [Aaron Gray's Comment](https://github.com/github/markup/issues/897#issuecomment-231591884) on the relevant issue.


## Environment
I generally write my notes in [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), using the [Markdown All in One](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=yzhang.markdown-all-in-one) extension. It allows for a whole range of cool features. I then use [Emoji Sense](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=bierner.emojisense) to ensure that my Emoji's work 👍

That being said, you do not have to use my environment  - I am simply letting you know what works for me. You can write markdown however you like! 😎

## Contact
I am more than happy to field any other queries to my [email](mailto:mckang009@myuct.ac.za)
